like to support you in these things i'd
like to help you get into a good college
but when i try to do that like you seem
to fight me and then i get stuck
what do you think i should do about that
hey laila thank you so much for coming
give me one second
all right so
patrick thanks for joining us people
from patrick's community welcome
um so layla let me go ahead and figure
out how to get this do you have video or
no
i do have a video do i need to turn it
on or is it okay if just to beat off
um so it's it
so here's our approach so just to give
you a little bit of orienting you don't
have to do anything you don't want to do
today you don't have to answer any
questions that you don't feel
comfortable answering you do not have to
show your face if you don't want to
at the same time
i certainly benefit a lot from seeing
people's faces and i think the audience
does as well because sometimes you know
if we're just communicating by voice
like facial expressions like can
mean a lot
um but at the same time you know for
privacy concerns and things like that if
you don't feel comfortable doing that
you absolutely do not have to thank you
so i would prefer to not uh have a
video okay so that's totally fine thank
you
so um and are you okay with sort of the
rest of it like you feel okay uh you
know if i ask you anything that you
don't feel comfortable answering you're
kind of okay
saying yeah i don't want to answer that
yeah if i don't feel comfortable i'll
let you know
so is it is it just for me or someone
else also there and they can hear us or
or what
yeah was that not clear to you
so we are we're no
i they i know whoever sent me that email
uh and texted me
and just it seems that i just have an
appointment not with you know other
people
it seems to me you know
but could you please explain
yeah so let's let's maybe
let's maybe pause
because this is something that's very
very important to understand
so um what we try to do here at healthy
gamer is like have conversations with
individual people but we stream those
conversations on the internet
and so if you are not kind of aware of
that
um i think maybe what we should do is
like pause because
this is being streamed live
and and so
it you know
i don't wanna i would almost say like if
that's not what you understood like i
wouldn't even i don't think it's even
appropriate to ask you are you okay with
that because like i want you to make
that decision with a clear head
does that make sense i i think it's i'm
okay i just wanna we don't need to name
our our uh kids or just no no don't
answer the questions
yeah absolutely so so i think and i
think that's okay yeah so the other
thing about you know like i said earlier
like privacy is very important to us so
um you know if you don't want to use
your full name if you don't want to use
your kids name if you don't want to um
you know it
it's not you don't have to share
anything in fact we wouldn't recommend
that you do that okay okay sounds good
you sure about that
yes i am
positive
okay
okay so layla then why don't you tell me
a little bit about
so just the last thing to just to
clarify with you because i'm not sure
exactly what you understood so while i
am a psychiatrist um i don't do i don't
deliver medical advice over the internet
so i won't be diagnosing you with
anything i won't be diagnosing your kid
with anything and i'm not actually your
doctor do you understand that
yep
okay
okay so um then let me just share with
you a little bit about is it okay if i
kind of share with you a little bit
about why we do stream this on the
internet absolutely yes please
so i think what's going on in society
right now is that there's a disconnect
between parents and their children so
what we try to do at healthy gamer is we
have interviews oftentimes with you know
people like your kids
where they share their perspective and
their experience of growing up in this
world their relationship with their
parents
oftentimes we've found that parents who
watch kind of even like not you know
obviously it's not their kid but
watching someone who could be their kid
talk about their experience of life is
very educational for the parents
and helps them better understand their
their own children and how to
communicate with them and what could be
going on with their kids does that make
sense
yeah
now what we're trying to do is actually
flip it around because what we've
realized that healthy gamer is that so
most of our audience we reach somewhere
i don't know anywhere between like a
million and 20 million people um a month
what we've realized is that like
your kids or like the generation of your
children
could probably benefit from
understanding their parents perspective
and so the reason that we've asked you
to come today is to share your
experience of you know what you're like
what your ex what your situation with
your kid is like and so that hopefully
all of the kids out there who are
listening
will learn something about what a parent
goes through and we hope that by the
kids understanding what the parents go
through that it'll improve their
relationship
yeah does that make sense
yeah
okay
so why don't you tell me a little bit
about um you know what your situation is
and and maybe if there's anything i can
help you with
yeah so well i have a 14 years old uh
son who is you know recently so i mean
since the since the pandemic
and
he's been you know playing a lot on the
computer xbox and using his phone a lot
before then
we had a
time for phone and everything but since
you know the pandemic happened and
they were staying home all kids and they
didn't have much fun so
we just kind of break our rule
and now it becomes like more and like
kind of addiction
so okay and it definitely i mean it it
affects our relationship and i'm very
concerned about um
his
his school and his you know academic
sure so um let me ask you how is it that
what it what changes have you noticed in
your son
well using a lot i mean spending a lot
of time with it with his you know with
his phone and and xbox and you know
computers you know
when you
when you say a lot what does a lot mean
well
i mean during this so of course now you
know school soros
he can he he cannot use his phone as
much as he used to
but
after school like let's say
from 6 to 10 10 30 he use his his phone
and he i mean and
all others like xbox
so we're talking about like four to four
and a half hours per day
yes and then on weekends all day long uh
he's on his phone
what is he doing on his phone
well i mean talking to his friends you
know snapchat tick tock and stuff like
that
okay
and when you say he talks to his friends
he's like texting with his friends or
he's on like voices no phone like phone
calls
okay
and and this is a problem in your eyes
of course
i know sometimes i ask silly questions
it's just to kind of confirm so what do
you think is the problem here
well he we we don't understand you know
time together he doesn't you know
do
like
exercising you know doing other things
it's just it's just using phone all day
long
okay
um and what would you what would you
think would like what would you like him
to do like what would what would it what
would a healthy relationship with
technology look like in your mind well
like let's say
kind of actively like going like walking
or hiking or playing outside even either
with his friends or family
doing chores you know
doing something you know he he it could
be like you know
drawing it could be
some some other thing some other like
you know doing some art or doing
whatever you know
anything except
using his phone and
yeah that's that's what i'm hearing
right anything like that you know i
don't really care as long as it's
something besides the phone outside
cleaning someone's house
sure
and and what what happens when you try
to you know
how how do you try to get him to do
other things like what does that look
like
like how do you get him to try to do
chores or exercise oh how i mean
i have to
end up fighting
sometimes
turn off turn off the you know internet
or turn off you know because i have
access to his xbox
computer and i can turn off the internet
pause it
but i really for 14 years old i don't
want to get to that point and i don't
want any conflict any fighting i want
him to kind of understand and i tried a
lot a lot of things
so tell me what you've tried
well like you know
i mean give him like okay after you do
this i'll give you you know more time
i'll give you this oh you know
like some kind of prize not really you
know prize but something that motivate
him
and and what do you try to motivate for
short short terms you know and then
he kind of gave up and then he he just
doesn't want to do that
so leila um it sounds like you you know
here's what i'm hearing
yeah so your your son maybe had
healthier habits that kind of pandemic
hit
things got way worse
and now
you genuinely recognize that you know
it's starting to really become a problem
and you're doing your best to respect
his preferences
you try really hard to help him
understand um you try really hard not to
fight not to punish you don't want to
just be like you know a dictator in the
house you're not just going to unplug
the internet and you're kind of doing
your level best
to not resort to those severe
punishments
but that something is kind of getting
lost in communication and sometimes
you're almost forced into that position
yeah
is that pretty fair
yes
what is that like for you to be forced
into that position
for for sam to to do like
you you mean by by force force him or
well no i mean i was kind of wondering
like so here i what i'm sort of
envisioning is that you're you're a mom
who loves your son
and he's doing something that's
unhealthy for him
and i was just kind of noticing that it
must be like really hard for you to be
put into this situation where it's like
either he ruins his life
or
you're the bad guy
right there's like it almost feels like
a lose-lose situation to me
well no i i do i do that but um
i
i do kind of you know turn off like you
know i mean pause his cell phone his you
know
i if i
notice that he really needs but
sometimes he
by like late but he does it he he does
whatever he needs to maybe
a lot of reminds
i have to do
but i want him to i want to kind of be
um
like you know
i want him to understand and
i want him to manage his time
i don't want i the thing i want
um for him is like he understand that he
needs to manage his time and
i don't want to be on top of him always
okay kind of like policing him no yeah
sure
so how do you get your child to manage
their own time how does that happen
well
so since i mean since he was a kid i i
like kind of
give him like a time for doing his you
know things like for example if he wants
something i said okay you have to do
this between this and this time and then
you will get that so it was okay until
sometimes you know um back and forth
back and forth you know um
fighting not not fighting like you know
arguing
and you know uh since you know he turns
to the teenage
and it gets a little bit conflict
yeah so can you help me understand like
like almost what a conversation looks
like like what what'll you say first
when will you say it what will you say
next and then how do things kind of end
up in a fight
well i i tried to send i tried to say it
very nicely and then ask him
so what would you say several times
please do for example do your homework
and then you have this this time to do
it and then remind him sometimes and if
he
and
he doesn't do that then i i i started to
um i mean do like you know taking his
phone
or um or
other like computers or whatever you
know xbox he he plays
so yeah so let me let's kind of tunnel
into that and by the way leila you're
are you feeling okay with the
conversation do you feel okay kind of
continuing yeah
okay this is really helpful for me and
and i really hope will uh because i
think what you're describing is
something a lot of parents struggle with
a lot of kids struggle with right yep so
i'm kind of curious when you say please
do your homework what do you understand
uh
when you say please do something so if i
lay like i were to say like hey layla
please give me a call tomorrow i mean is
that something that you think is sort of
like a request or an order or a favor or
what does that mean
this is kind of request
it's a request right so like yeah
requests can be denied right
uh
it depends
so when it depends who requests that
so if it's i mean it depends
yeah so like when you say please it's
between parents if it between parents
and kids of course it's going to be most
of the time denied
okay so so like but what i'm kind of
saying is when you when you ask your son
to do something
i'm curious like in your mind does he
have to do it or he's allowed to refuse
no he has to do it
okay and so what i'm hearing is that
you're giving him an order
but you're phrasing it like a request
well it's it's both
but it's still it's it's order yeah he
needs to do that but i i
i i don't want to like do it you ha i
mean like saying the way that's the way
that say we we say it's it's
it's different
yeah so
yeah and laila i think this could be
part of the problem right because what
i'm hearing is that
you say something and you don't want to
order him
but you're kind of ordering him
so you think it shouldn't be
which way should it be it should be
request or it should be order or both or
what do you think
i think
whatever it is should be consistent
right so if in your mind it's an order
it should be clearly communicated as an
order and if in your mind is a request
it should be clearly communicated as a
request
because here's the thing so like if if
my so i used to be addicted to video
games
okay
and my mom told me the same thing that
that you did
yeah right and so she would say please
do this and like when someone asks me to
please do something
in my mind it's sort of like i don't
have to right
yeah
does that does that make sense to you
yeah yes yes totally yes
and then and then she would come in an
hour later and she would be like she
would ask me a question have you done
your homework yet do you ask that to
your son
no i for homework i said you have to do
it
i see so so when you said you remind him
several times what what does that
conversation look like so you say hey
please do your homework right that's no
no i don't say please do no no for
homework i don't say please do your
homework i say i see you need to you
need to get off and get on for your
homework okay so let's no yeah get let's
let's kind of dig into this a little bit
more because that's really
useful to hear layla thank you so much
for clarifying that so like let's say
like what when is this conversation
happening is this like a weekday
conversation or like weekend
conversation
weekday
okay so weekday like what time does he
get home
5 36
okay and what time does your first
interaction with your child happen
well uh
seven let's see okay so 7 pm rolls
around and who initiates the
conversation
i do
okay and what do you say awesome you're
doing great layla by the way
we're gonna get to the bottom of this
okay uh i said you need to do your
homework
okay before this time for example before
10.
fantastic you need to do homework before
yep and how does he respond
well
it
he he doesn't do right away but he
doesn't okay and are you okay with that
yes as long as he does it
so
so what does that communication look
like so you say hey you need to do your
homework before 10. yeah
one that that that works my my problem
is it's uh
about um
his screen time honestly
okay so now i'm gonna even though i
don't i don't care that i'm not let's
not say that
i don't care actually he does his his
homework and he's you know school but
still
he is on his phone a lot
so
yeah i want him to
minimize that
okay i'm i'm with you 100 but let's try
to look at that from kind of hit like
let's not steer away from the homework
yet is it okay if i just kind of
because i want to get that kind of
pinned down because i want to understand
your interaction there so you come in at
7 8 you say you have to do your homework
before 10. when does he end up doing do
you when does he end up doing his
homework
he's always like you know in the last
minutes sure so like he starts at nine
maybe yeah okay so he starts at nine and
he finishes it by ten so you've given
him an order
and he come like do you do you talk to
him at all between seven and nine or
like you're kind of like you know he's
gonna do it
uh a couple of reminder but i know that
he he he does it
so a couple of reminders help me
understand what a reminder actually
sounds like
like did you finish did you do it
something what does he say
he said i'll do it
he says i'll do it okay so you remind
him like maybe at like 8 30 let's say
uh yeah kind of
okay and he says i'll do it and then he
ends up doing it and then
do you
is there any discussion afterward like
what happens at 10 pm do you guys talk
about it
well just checking with him did you do
it and then check it and then if he
did it
so then he's all set
okay but the other thing
he does it because he he wants to get to
to the screen he wants to get under the
screen and then play for late time and
then go to bed late so
mostly that yeah we'll get to that in a
second so when he does his homework and
you check it and he does it what he what
do you do you say anything after that
like
like what
like good job
of course
i know it's kind of a weird question but
are you sure you say that no no no it's
no it's not weird but i i i i didn't
know what what do you mean exactly by
sure asking that yes
okay and how does he respond to that
well you know 14 years old doesn't
respond you know if you say good job
thank you they are like yeah
yeah right he doesn't he doesn't really
know how to respond to that no do you
get
do you get the sense like how do you
feel when he's done his homework well i
although he doesn't say anything but i
feel like he's he's also happy to do
that on time i mean by that time and
then he's free he i i can feel it that
he feels that he's free to go
okay so he's happy that he's done with
his chores yeah and that he has followed
your orders so he's happy to be free
of the homework and even arguably he's
on his own time and then he can do
like
being on his phone or being on xbox or
you know playing games
so layla when he does his homework by 10
pm how do you feel emotionally
well of course i i feel
i feel good
are you sure about that he did it
yeah are you sure you feel good that he
does his homework
yes
are there any other feelings there
um
i
honestly i don't know what do you mean
by that yeah
i know it's really confusing right so
this is going to be like so i'm going to
toss something i'm not i'm and you let
me know right if this makes sense to you
or not
but what i'm sort of hearing is that
like you can't really be upset that he
did his homework but in the back of your
mind you're not really like happy
because the only reason he's doing his
homework is to get to the screen time
right and like what i'm almost hearing
from you is that you're almost like even
though he did what he was supposed to do
he's not like doing it for the right
reasons and you can't really be happy
if he's just complying with your orders
because he's not understanding he's not
doing it for the right reason he's just
complying with your orders to get you
off of his back so that he can like go
back to the addiction and how can any
parent be happy when they're you know
the kid is just sitting there like
waiting
okay mom are we done yet can i get back
to it can i get back to it now okay
great like how can a mom truly be happy
in that situation
that's true
what what do you think is that because
because it's interesting because you
you're even doing this thing where i'll
ask you about the homework and then you
kind of like will change the topic and
you'll be like i just don't want him to
use the screen
do you understand does that make sense
yes yes yes so are you actually like
satisfied like i know that he did what
he was supposed to do so technically you
can't be like upset with him
but i wouldn't be surprised at all if
there was a part of you that was like
still uneasy about the way that you had
to force him to do it and that you can't
really be happy about the way things
ended up
yeah that's true
yeah one what yeah one part one part yes
it's you know it's right and the other
part still he's getting on on on the
screen which is which i don't like it
that's true yeah
and and so
how
so when you dislike his screen usage
does that
get communicated to him in any way
either in tone or even facial expression
or like through words
may i ask one more time i mean yeah tell
me your question please
yeah so like so what i'm hearing is that
you're kind of happy that he did his
work right yeah yeah but then you're
also kind of like unhappy that he's like
missing the bigger point
which is that the only reason he's doing
the work is to like feed his addiction
and so you're kind of unhappy with that
right
yes
and so you know when people communicate
with each other sometimes the emotions
that we feel
will get communicated to the your son
for example so does that happiness get
commu does the unhappiness that you feel
get communicated to him in any way
yes because then after yeah after he
does his homework then i tell him hey
you ha you don't have much time
to
play a lot you have just this time to
get i mean you need to get off
uh you know early because you need to go
to bed
so
yeah he
most i mean not most of time but he
uh
he does it but sometimes i need you know
i end up to to pause
he's uh he's a screen
okay so sometimes he'll like listen to
that order as well sometimes yeah and
and other times you he doesn't listen to
the order yeah and i have yeah i have to
so you can your action yeah you're
forced into like setting a hard boundary
yes okay
and how does he how does he res how does
that communication happen and how does
he respond to that
well
he said okay okay okay but he it's not
like he really he he said he he doesn't
really mean that
of course and yeah
and then i have to get an action take an
action what is taking an action what is
that like paint me a picture if i was
like in your house
and what would i say
yeah i have to pause me
pause he's from from my phone i can
pause you know
and any devices that i have
on the internet so i can pause it
so you use your phone and you just like
pause the internet pause the yes not
pause the internet pause the device i
can pause the device so you can pause
his xbox his pc his phone from your
phone yeah
and do you tell him you're doing that or
before i do it yes i said you have for
example you have 10 minutes and if you
don't get off it's gonna i'm gonna pause
it
okay he gets very upset he gets where
sometimes he asks me can i have like two
more minutes to i mean
no i i but i do it
and when you say that that was great so
he says can i have two more minutes no i
said no and he gets really upset and
then sometimes i scream but i don't care
he screams or you scream
no he screams sometimes that yeah i need
to finish this and i said no and then he
get you know gets back to whatever go to
bed
so so he's he screams and says i need to
finish it and then do you yell back or
do you're just like sorry
no i just make him cry just be quiet go
to your bed tomorrow is another day
okay
yeah
and um
how do you
how do you understand that interaction
like help me understand how how do you
feel about that dynamic
about
i mean doing that with him sure
so he needs to understand i mean i feel
of course i feel bad that i feel bad for
him but he needs to understand that
this i mean the time managing he needs
to understand that sure that makes a lot
of sense to me so like you you wish it
was different
it's not that like you don't want to
upset your son but at the end of the day
like
as his parent it is like your
responsibility to
help him understand the things that he
needs to understand right yeah so if
sometimes if that means a little bit of
tough love like that's okay
like it's a necessary evil
is that fair to say
yeah
yeah so let's talk about this for a
second layla um i i don't blame you at
all by the way are you feeling okay like
do you feel like i'm i'm trying to like
make you sound bad or making you
painting you out to be a bad parent or
anything like that
no but i would like to hear more about
and how we can help kids absolutely so
we're just getting there yeah so i think
the first thing is to kind of map out
what your interactions are like
and then try to look at so let me give
you a little bit of road map so we want
to map out like what the individual
interactions are like
and once we understand what your
interactions are like we can start to
understand
how people
feel
after those interactions
and then we can start to change our
interactions to try to move in a
different direction does that make sense
yeah okay so you say he needs to
understand right layla
yes how do people understand things
what is the process through which we
gain gain understanding
well by by telling them
by telling them so like by telling them
and by you know making rules for
them
uh
so explain to them
okay explain making rules so let's kind
of think about that okay
so
if i want to learn mathematics
how do i learn mathematics
so by um
doing your homework doing class four
follow your teacher and
that's how you learn
and if i'm not understanding in
mathematics what is the way so let's say
like i'm a math teacher and i have a
student and i give a lecture for like an
hour and then i give the homework and
then the kid can't do the homework what
should i do next as the teacher
so i
ask
why he doesn't understand or she doesn't
understand which way i mean what party
does he or she doesn't understand
explain it more
okay so do you ask your son
why he spent so much time on the screen
yes i did and he said that uh
there is nothing to do nothing else to
do except that
okay
and then what do you think about that
so it's it's not right
and i asked him some and i asked him i i
i i put him for a basketball class
tennis class
all the sports club most of the sports
classes and he he does it he liked it
but at the end still he wants to be on
his phone
okay so i'm a little bit confused
because he says there's nothing to do
and then you say like that for example
yeah yeah that's not right i said yeah
you you can do chores at home like
cleaning your room cleaning house
you know
out is i mean playing with your friends
outside doing exercising stuff like that
but he's not motivated for that
okay why isn't he motivated for that
why why
why isn't he motivated to do the things
that you tell him to do
well because he thinks yeah he enjoys a
lot on his phone
because
how do you come to that conclusion
uh like
what do you mean by that how do i
how do you know why what you so you have
an assumption
that he is not motivated to do things
like basketball even though he enjoys
them
right
but like so it sounds like when i ask
you
why he's like to explain his motivation
it sounds to me like you're making an
assumption about his motivation
which is that he just likes the phone
more
no because i i see again i see him that
as soon as he finished that until you
know he's with basketball whatever what
is whatever sports yeah as soon as he
finishes he wants to get to his phone
i see him he wants to get it
okay so now layla i'll i'll give you
kind of like uh some
information okay so you let me know what
you think about that so just like a math
you know if a math student
is not learning math i think the right
way to get them to understand is as a
teacher don't just teach it again
just like you said you have to ask them
like what part is confusing for them
right
so oddly enough like the right move for
a teacher in that situation is not to
tell the student that they're wrong
not to explain it again but to try to
understand the student's understanding
does that make sense
yes
and so oddly enough what i'm kind of
hearing is that you'll ask hey why do
you like the game but then
as soon as he gives you an answer what
i'm noticing you're doing is like you
just kind of say that's wrong
and you're not really like understanding
his perspective
you're just saying that his perspective
is incorrect
does that make sense
so
let me ask you a question do you mean
that when he wants to get back to his
phone
i feel like it's wrong right yep
so
it is kind of wrong because he wants to
get his phone right i mean for i mean
sure 24 7. so
if i don't
yeah if i don't make him to do something
except you know being on his phone then
of course
so yeah i know i need to tell him that
being on on the phone it's not it's not
right
okay so let's see i don't think it means
that all of us i mean i i i as a as an
adult i'm on my phone
also sometimes
not 24 students but i also
i don't i don't say that he shouldn't be
on his phone
no i this is not my point my point is he
can be on his phone he can you know go
to
a play xbox he can be on a snapchat tick
tock whatever but like
i mean certain time
not all yes this is my opinion that's it
yeah so let me i'm going to just toss
out words and i'm going to kind of group
them okay
so
what you're describing is like you kind
of telling him that this is wrong i'm
not saying you're wrong for saying that
by the way okay
so it's wrong you can order him you can
make him
that's like one camp right like there
were right and wrong it's black and
white you have to do it that's like one
approach the other approach involves
motivation understanding
asking questions
do you see how like those two are like
different things yes
so what what i'm kind of noticing is
that like you can force him to do stuff
and he'll do it because you have more
power in the relationship
but forcing him to do things is not how
you make someone understand right like i
mean you're a parent yeah that's true
right so and this is where like when you
ask him a question i don't really get
the sense that you're
i think you need to ask the next
question right so like help me
understand like here's a question that i
would ask your son
so
it's been my observation that when you
actually go to basketball you seem to
enjoy it and i'll even ask you like hey
did you have a good time
and that you know you do want to do well
in school so like these things seem
important to you and you seem to enjoy
them
but every time when i try to get you to
do something you resist me a lot
can you help me understand why you
resist me so much like i'm kind of
confused because these two things don't
line up for me
what do you think about that question
so i do i do it i do the same
and what does he say
good job
yeah i do it but he
he
he doesn't answer like you know
he doesn't have any answer he's like i
enjoy it for example if i ask okay
you have a good time in a basketball or
whatever
and i see you you enjoy it and then you
want it also you want it you like it but
then you as soon as you get home i see
you on the phone always
and he said mom i i play and i enjoy now
i wanted to spend time with my friends
that's that's all he says
okay
so that doesn't what you're saying
doesn't really sound like a question to
me
right it sounds to me like you're making
a point
i know it's kind of weird
but like you're kind of
i'm almost getting like
the subtitles
for what you're saying is you shouldn't
be on your phone
oh you mean instead of asking
telling him you shouldn't just i mean i
think what i'm hearing is that sometimes
you'll you remember earlier when we were
talking about like making requests
versus giving orders
yeah what i'm hearing is that when you
ask a question it's not really a
question you're making a point with a
question mark at the end
what do you think about that well i i i
didn't think you know that it's like
that i thought this is like a kind of
question
yeah so so i understand
just pointing to yeah yeah i mean that's
sort of what i'm hearing and i'm
concerned that that's what he could be
hearing too
because what i'm hearing is sometimes
he'll give you answers
and your response to his answers or his
opinions
is that's wrong
yeah
okay and so i'm just gonna like kind of
i'll say it right so if you're like if
you're in a relationship where you share
an opinion with someone
and their response is that's wrong
i'm not gonna want to continue to
communicate with that person
right my answers are just going to
become simple
there's no like dialogue
what do you think about that
yeah
i get it
right so i'm not trying to make you feel
like a bad parent i i genuinely don't
think you're a bad parent i think what's
happening nowadays is that
video conversation can makes a lot of
difference yeah yep and video game
addiction
requires a sophistication of
communication
by parents
that we didn't need anymore
need in the past because there is so
much dopamine there's so much addictive
stuff like that's the way these apps are
designed that's the way the games are
designed and so as a parent we have to
be we have to have a sophistication of
our communication that counters the
addictiveness of devices
yeah
does that make sense
yes
so you know what i would say like if you
want some concrete advice because i get
the sense you want that for me so we'll
let's give you some it's to ask the next
question
right so and this is the kind of thing
where if you don't understand if you
disagree with something or you think
that something is wrong
it's okay for you to share that opinion
but i would try to understand his
perspective just like a math teacher
right so if like if i'm trying to teach
someone an addition and they say two
plus two is six and i say that's wrong
two plus two is four and i can say that
15 times but until i ask the student how
are you getting two plus two equals six
does that make sense like you have to
understand like how they're getting to
the wrong conclusion in the first place
because that's really when you can help
them understand how two plus two equals
four
yeah so you know when i think you're
doing a lot of the right stuff right
you're asking him like why is it that
you don't you know you seem to like
basketball but you want to do snapchat
and then he says well i just like being
with my friends
right so and that could be a big part of
it so this is where one of the things
that we've also noticed is that when we
work with parents
we help them try to
ask lots of questions that they may not
think about asking for with their kids
so for example like maybe he gets
bullied at basketball
do you know if that's the case
no
i isn't you know that he doesn't get
bullied or you're not sure yeah yeah i
know that yeah because i i talk to him a
lot
and he tells me everything
the good things about my son is he tells
me everything
that's very good if he gets upset i mean
he even if he doesn't talk
i can i can and notice from his face and
his attitude and after i said there is
there anything you want to share with me
here start talking which is great wow
that's awesome how did you get to the
point where your son shares everything
with you well because since since the
beginning i talked to him a lot and i
was involved um
everything with him
and
i i just talked to him a lot and i was
very friend and i never i mean never
punished him like you know really you
know punished just i want him to be
friend with me not scared of me
so
we have this good relationship at least
he tells me everything which is great
yeah i mean i i think that it's clear
that you guys have a very good and
loving relationship
and at the same time
it also sounds like sometimes you know
you're turning off pausing his devices
and kind of pissing him off
and so i wonder a little bit about
how that would affect his communication
with you
well
i mean the good thing about my son is he
gets mad easily but
in a second he turns back to his
you know normal
which is great yeah so he's really mad
at me and you know right after he just
you know become quiet he's i mean very
easily and then he
he continued
which is good yeah
so so it sounds like he doesn't hold on
to the anger and he doesn't start to
resent you and that you guys have a very
solid foundation of communication
yeah so this is what i'd say layla i
think like this is where you know what i
would really do is is sit down with your
son
and ask him
[Music]
questions like i don't know maybe you've
done this do you want me to force you to
do your homework
have you ever asked him that
no i haven't
what do you think would happen if you
did ask him that
well
i never think about it
yeah right so so like it's kind of a
different question right like what do
you think about that question
so
what was your call you said what what do
i think he thinks
no what do you what do you think about
the question do you want me to force you
to do your homework how would you how do
you feel about that question is that
like you think it's a good i mean this
is this is a good question this is great
but the thing is
uh
i don't know what it what he's gonna
answer
that's the thing yep
does he have any answer for that
yeah so so so the here's the thing laila
the questions you need to be asking your
son are the ones that you don't know how
he's going to answer
that's exactly what you should be asking
him right because there's a fundamental
disconnect
between
his view of things and your view of
things yes
and in order to get on the same page
with your kid you can try to drag him
over to your side as much as you want to
which is what i think you've been doing
that's what most parents do right
but like i think this is the point where
he's not 12 anymore he's not 10 he's 14.
he's starting to form his own opinions
he's starting to have his own beliefs
yes right
and so it's really good that you guys
have this really solid foundation and so
i think really like asking him questions
that you kind of don't know the answer
to
because you're you're a mother who knows
everything about your son you can tell
right
yeah so now this is the point where he's
going to start to be a little bit more
closed off because he's a 14 year old
boy
right he's like probably going through
puberty and stuff so i'm sure
you know they're going to be like maybe
thoughts or feelings that he has that
maybe he's not sharing with his mom
because that's what 14 year old boys do
when they go through puberty you
wouldn't be there
yes and so like this is the time where
it's
time to start changing the way that you
communicate with him yes and really
trying to understand his perspective
so
other things other like suggestions for
conversations are just asking him you
know how important is school to you
do you want to do well in school
yeah what do you think about those
questions
that's great yeah
right so do you know did you talk to him
about that
yes i did yes and he's he said what do
you think mom of course it is
yeah he said of course it is it is
important
and then what do you say next
you know you know these kids what type
of words they do i'm not dumb i'm not
stupid or stuff like that they use
but you really don't know what's going
on in their brain that's the thing
so when he says of course it's important
what what do you say next
i said okay if it's important then
how come that
you don't do this that you know no no
see that's an accusation layla you're
losing him right at that moment you see
that
if it's important why don't you
why don't you
that you're losing him right there
does that make sense
yes so instead i have to i have to say
oh then you should do this no no no no
no no no no no no here's the thing okay
here's the one thing you got to do later
you're doing fantastic just got to
change one thing
you shouldn't say anything after that
you should ask another question
okay
right because he says of course it's
important
and then this is going to be kind of
weird right and then you ask him help me
understand why
why is school important to you
right because here's the thing in his
mind there is a conflict
school is important and i want to play
the video game
and so this is what happens with
teenagers is the more you push him the
more he's going to push back
and this is the thing right because like
you you ask him like hey is school
important to you he says yes and then
you're like yay we win right
leila he understands what he's supposed
to understand he's giving you the right
answer
and so then your mind you're like
everyone charge let's attack then why
don't you do this like let's go like
change like you just gave me like you
gave me an inch of ground so i'm gonna
go all in you kind of get what i'm
saying why don't you then you're like
why don't you do this why don't you do
this and when you ask the question like
when i why like for example we're gonna
try this okay leila so it's gonna maybe
just be ready for it
if i ask you with a question layla why
don't you ask why don't you try to
understand your son better
if i ask you that question how does it
make you feel
yeah
yeah i got it yeah you're right ah let's
articulate it right because we can't see
your face right now i'm sure if we could
see your face we'd be able to see what
your answer is how does that make you
feel
of course you know it's like kind of um
forcing
yeah
right and so in a weird way like does
that inspire you to act do you feel like
i'm on your team
do you feel like we're on the same team
here
no
right and so
and this is the tricky thing about this
layla is like you're not wrong at all in
fact you're 100 right
and this is like where the
sophistication of communication comes in
because you're right that like you know
spending like four hours a day on
snapchat is like not good for your kid
you know it's not good for your kid he
knows it's it's not good for him
he understand like you don't think your
kid understands that playing video games
for 10 hours a day on the weekend is
like a waste of his time
yeah he gets that right yeah yes yeah on
some level he gets it
yes and and the problem is like he's
addicted
so like he even like sometimes it he may
not be addicted i'm kind of using that
simply but even like people who are
addicted like the whole point is that
they can't stop
they like they know it's bad but they
can't stop
like your son understands that like you
know he understands how like
relationships and dating and stuff works
he understands that if he spends 10
hours a day on the weekends like on his
phone instead of playing basketball and
exercising like it's gonna be hard for
him to like date
like he's not an idiot
you with me
yes
and the problem though is that something
is going on that has him retreating or
escaping to the to the device
and even to the point where he sort of
recognizes and i think this is part of
the reason that
you all have such a good relationship
because a lot of things that you do to
him like would piss a lot of kids off
right and he gets pissed off but he
doesn't hold on to it
why doesn't he hold on to it because he
recognizes on some level that first of
all you love him and secondly like what
you're doing what you're forcing him to
do is actually for his benefit and i
suspect he understands that what do you
think
no he understand that yeah right so i
think that's why y'all's relationship is
as good as it is and i think really all
you need to do is
start at like ask like one or two more
questions
you know because here's the cool thing
like i i i
is it okay if i keep talking or you want
to jump in or
yes yeah okay yeah so like here's like
so here's sequence number one you know
help me understand like why do you play
video games i thought you liked
basketball and he's like yeah or let's
let's talk about great so you say you
know is school important he says yes and
then like option one is like then why
don't you dot dot dot right and then he
feels kind of attacked he's like he kind
of feels ashamed because you're right
right like you're clearly making a good
point like you can't really argue
against it and so he kind of shuts down
and gives you a very short response
fair am i
okay so let's like look at option number
two right which is like okay this school
important to you says yes
and then you can say help me understand
why school is important to you what
about school is important to you and as
you get him to articulate he says well
school is important to me because like
you know i want to go to a good college
and then it's like another question like
why is going to a good college important
to you like why do you want to go to
college
as you get him to articulate and bring
out of him
yeah you know what he really cares about
and what he values in life
then you're setting yourself up and then
you kind of like the next you know the
third or fourth or fifth question that
you ask him is like
so i'm a little bit confused because you
tell me that you want to go to college
because you want to be intellectually
challenged and that you want to make a
difference in the world
and i'm kind of confused because like on
a day-to-day basis
your actions are not really like aligned
with that
so as a parent i don't know
what to do
i don't know because on the one hand i
want to support you in all of these
goals which i think are the right goals
but every time and even i mean i know
you right and we're talking about this
so i'd like to support you in these
things i'd like to help you get into a
good college
but when i try to do that like you seem
to fight me and then i get stuck
what do you think i should do about that
and that's when he'll start to
understand
right because you're sort of explaining
your
situation to him you're not telling him
what's right or wrong
you're almost
recruiting him to be on your side and
you're working with him you're like hey
son this is a problem you and i have to
solve together
does that make sense
yes
right and and i think that's when
understanding is going to come
yes yes i that yeah i i understand
you are right
okay so let's just think about that for
a second
if you agree with me
how did you unders did you understand
that at the beginning of the
conversation
yes
okay
i was a little bit confused by that
because i was expecting you to say no so
i feel like you've learned something
over the course of our conversation am i
wrong
you you said the the beginning of the
conversation you mean the
you mean this conversation or the
beginning of our meeting our beginning
of our meeting yeah
so like
let's just so you've learned something
over the course of our meeting right
how did you learn what have you learned
let's start there
so i
well i learned that um
how
uh to communicate better with my son
instead of you know because my actually
my
conversation was
different then you just told me
i have to start with question and then
keep continue until he
he tells me instead of i tell him and i
force him he starts to tell me
and i get the words from here him
more than i talk to him or i mean more
than i thought and i taught
beautifully put layla i think that is
the essence of the goal that we set for
our parents
yeah which is instead of teaching your
kid
yes
bring him to a point of understanding
because as long as you're teaching him
he's on one side and you're on the
opposite side yeah not in in stop
lecturing
listening more i got it yeah so now
let's ask you a question
how did you learn that today
oh i i i learned honestly i learned
especially this you know that at the end
i learned a lot
but how what did we do well you know i
mean the thing is i mean
uh our
generation was way different than these
new generations so of course
and the way that we grew it wasn't like
that and then basically we use kind of
our
um
our parents
manner
and then use it for our kids
absolutely
yeah and that's why we need more
uh
more help and more um so
sorry to interrupt i wouldn't say what
you're doing is wrong
no no no i mean i i didn't i don't mean
it's wrong like you know
just the way
different ways
yeah i i cause i i think i would just
that that degree of judgment
laila concerns me a little bit because i
don't think what you're doing is wrong
i think it's insufficient
for the current challenges that you're
of the world
i agree yes
you know
and so maybe i explained yeah you
explained a bit and maybe mine was a
little bit confusing yes no no i i
that too i think it's like this is the
point of communication right is we just
make sure we're kind of on the same page
and
and so the other point that i was kind
of making is that like you know over the
course of this conversation
[Music]
most of what i've been doing is like
asking questions
yes
right and i think that's like to
illustrate the point of like that's
where understanding comes from yeah yeah
and and it's kind of giving you stuff to
play with is what i
call it right like i'm not saying like
so for example when i gave you two
options and i like okay here's
communication style one hey do you think
school is important yes then why don't
you do it here's communication style
number two
um you know
do you think school is important yes
tell me why it's important to you and
keep on asking questions and then i
don't tell you which one is right
right i'm not saying one is good and one
is bad i'm saying hey here are two
options which one do you like more
and that's what in my experience that's
what brings out the understanding is
that it comes from a place that like it
sounds like your son and you have a
really solid relationship it sounds like
you'll have a really solid foundation it
sounds like he's a smart kid
and so i think interestingly enough like
now that he's 14
instead of teaching him stuff you can
actually rely on him to like figure
things out for himself
yeah just guide him
absolutely like give him the questions
not the answers
because i think he he'll i mean he knows
the answers you baked that into him you
know he understands and that's why he
doesn't fight you he doesn't hold on to
resentment because deep down he knows
you're right
and and helping him so you don't
actually need to teach him anything he
already understands it you just need to
bring his understanding to the surface
and sometimes the way that we
communicate with our kids
results in like denial or defensiveness
and when you say something that causes
him to kind of like
pull back and put up a wall like then
there's not going to be understanding
does that make sense
yes you're going to get these like
because i want to mom like he's going to
get you these really crappy
short answers that are like hard to
engage in right he's like kind of
shutting down the conversation
yeah
that's true
so um
i feel like we've covered some decent
ground today and that we're at like kind
of decent kind of pausing point or even
stopping point
how do you feel
well it was great for me it was very
good conversation and i learned a lot
from from that
are are there any questions that you
have remaining i mean we still have some
time if you want it but like any
questions that you have or any other way
that i can potentially be of help well i
i want to know uh about this is this
course can be continuing or is just one
one time
oh no no so yeah so let me tell you a
little bit about our parent program so
here's what we try to do
we have a 12-week course okay so every
week there's like a lecture
and the the topics of the lecture are
first of all communication and alliance
building so our approach is first and
foremost how to communicate effectively
with your child and more importantly how
to build what we call an alliance so
i'll just give you an example like once
you talk to your kid
about why school is important to them
then any kind of limit that you set
is not because you think it's good
the reason you're setting these limits
are because of what they care about
hey you've told me that you want to go
to a good college because you want to
study
you want to be a doctor one day
so
it's because i support your goal that i
have to turn off the internet at 10
o'clock
it's not about what i want it's actually
about what you want and then what
happens is kids or once you build an
alliance with your kid
the
they're going to be a lot less resistant
to the boundaries that you set so the
first thing is communication
understanding and getting on the same
team with your kid it's not even about
restricting to two hours a day or ten
hours a day or five hours a day or
anything like that that's where everyone
wants to start is like how do i get my
kids to play less video games we don't
start there we start by communication
and alliance building
then what we do is we teach you how to
set good boundaries
so like
it kind of goes into like you know once
we understand communication then how do
you set an effective boundary and that's
where we also like want to bring your
kid into the boundary setting so you can
say hey uh son here are my goals for you
i want you to exercise you know what
you've said is important to you
um i want you to do chores and you say
you don't want to so like maybe there's
some wiggle room there and you say you
want to do well on school but you also
say that because if you talk to your kid
you'll also discover things like maybe
they are getting bullied at school or
maybe they feel embarrassed about their
acne or maybe they're overweight or
whatever and that's the reason that he
spends so much time online with his
friends because it's hard for him to
make friends in real life
so there may be all kinds of stuff going
on it sounds like your son communicates
with you so maybe less important in your
case but for a lot of parents there are
things that they don't know about their
kids so once you understand what drives
him towards the video game
it can help you set healthy boundaries
right because now you understand like
why he's resisting why he's fighting
and so then we try to help people set
you know very kind of like detailed
boundary setting plans so like you know
when are you going to play what are you
going to play what's more important to
you so that's like a question that we
encourage our parents to ask a lot you
know i understand that you want to play
games with your friends like is it more
important to like stay up late on friday
nights or play an hour with them or two
hours with them every day like which one
is more important to you
and so once you sort of start to get
like what they care about you can even
like so then they kind of know that
you're like sort of trying to support
them right you understand what they want
and you're setting limits but you're not
setting limits that you you know
he has to do his homework but whether he
does his homework
an hour every day or all over the
weekend like he can sort of decide that
if that makes sense
yes so you want you want to enroll him
make him a part of the process of the
limit setting
you know it's kind of like no taxation
without representation like you want to
give him a voice
in the limit setting in the boundaries
yeah
and then we'll we'll sort of help you
set boundaries and we'll help you
troubleshoot boundaries because at the
end of the day like they're thing you
know you can set these boundaries and
he's not going to listen to him and then
how do you have conversations with him
how do you set limits on him how do you
draw the line how do you enforce things
and then also we'll give you like
communication tips and sort of like you
know how to have those conversations
the other big thing that we do in the
program is we help decompress your
emotions this is a huge thing
so you know these little things like
because in the back of your mind if you
just you know layla what i get the sense
of is that you just don't like him being
on his phone you just don't like it
and that kind of feeling is gonna
translate in your words and in your tone
and so even when he does everything that
you ask him to you're not gonna be happy
and he's gonna feel that
which means that when he does what you
ask him to
it there's not really like a positive
emotional reinforcement because you're
not truly happy
does that make sense
yes so you're gonna say good job but
you're gonna say it with a little bit of
like
it's not gonna be like hey awesome job
it's gonna be like good job
i know you did it today but i'm not
really happy on the inside good job does
that make sense
yes yes so we want we don't want those
emotions to to come out with
with your kid we want you to bring those
emotions into our program and let them
come out with the other parents
work on that like work on your fear for
your child we haven't really talked
about this but a lot of parents will be
like afraid right like what happens when
my kid goes to college and i'm not there
to force him what's gonna happen and all
of that fear that you hold all of that
frustration that you hold we want you to
process it with us
so that when you are talking with your
kid when you're interacting with your
kid you can be calm you can be collected
you can be focused and disciplined
because he's going to feed off of your
energy
and so it's a 12-week program where
there's lectures but then we also have
you all meet for 90 minutes a week in
addition lecture you can watch on your
time it's like a video
and we're gonna teach you a lot of stuff
so we'll also teach you about like
marijuana usage and autism spectrum
disorder and like how to understand like
what questions to ask your kids and what
kind of games your kids like and there's
a lot like information about video game
addiction how video games affect your
child's brain how they affect their
psychology how they affect their
self-esteem
um you know how to have conversations
around self-esteem and your kid feeling
like they're a failure or whatever
there's a bunch of stuff in there and
then for 90 minutes a week we're going
to give you guys opportunities to
practice so you're going to have a coach
and you all will do things like role
play you're going to practice you know
not using the word should why don't you
do this then you should do this we're
going to give you like literally like a
chance to practice those communication
skills
and support each other as parents and
what we really see is that at the end of
12 weeks
parents who are able to actually commit
to the program their relationship is
very different with their kids
okay it sounds great and then how okay
is it something um
how much we should pay for is it
something we have to pay for it or it's
yeah i actually don't know the price but
it is something that you have to pay for
um if you guys you know if you're in a
position of financial hardship just kind
of let us know
sometimes we have subsidy funds for
people who can't afford afford it yeah
um let me actually try to figure out
what the price is
i think it may be like oh i don't want
to misquote
let me see if i can ask it should say
yeah so the cost is fifty dollars a week
fifty dollars
yep
a week and then uh
how about the other the one that you
said there is someone i mean i mean how
about the 90 minutes
you said once a week 90 minutes what's
that
that's all part of the course so what we
do in our courses there's a there's
going to be a lecture that you watch
and then there's 90 minutes of like
group work
it's going to be role play skills
practice processing your own emotions
talking to other parents
troubleshooting communication issues
troubleshooting boundary issues
and like you got to do both
yeah and then and then uh is it uh that
one also covered by this or yeah yeah
it's all included
so our experience has been that set like
letting people just watch a series of
lectures is not actually like that
effective what's really effective
because you have an individual case with
your child right
so like you can watch a lecture but
adapting the principles of the lecture
to your individual case requires like
actual individual support so we have a
group that every you know there'll be
like somewhere between like six and
eighty all usually
so like we're gonna get like like let's
say seven parents together once a week
for 90 minutes where you guys will learn
the practical application of the theory
that you learn in the lectures okay any
questions that you guys have any trouble
that you run into we want to support you
through all that because like you know
in the lecture i may say like you know
ask this question but then if if your
kid's answer is like something that's
unexpected then like
what do you do about that
right you may not know so that's why we
have the group every week so you can
come in and you can talk to your coach
and you can say hey i asked my kid do
you care about school and he said no
now i don't know what to say i don't
know what to do
you know and so like we want to help you
troubleshoot your individual situation
and practice these skills
okay and also do they uh kid also
involve at some point or
no cheating involved no so so most of
our clients actually laila are your kids
so we've had like
7 000 kids come through our program but
their program is different
mm-hmm
for them
uh so like we work on things like
motivation
you know figuring out what you want to
do with your life things like that but
you have to be at least 16 to enter that
program
because kids have to want to change
so
okay and that's where we like you know
most of what we try to help because like
here's the thing you know your kid
wants to do well in life right but like
he may be addicted so even internally
he's like conflicted so we try to help
people work through their internal
conflict
yeah
great so okay
oh sorry we've had 10 000 people come
through
my wife is correcting me
and then
so sh
when i decided to do this course 12 week
course
how i can register or you know do i have
to is there anyone we'll send you so i
think you've been talking to someone in
our organization we will send you
information
okay
sounds good
yeah
any other questions
that's it thank you so much it was very
nice to meeting you and pleasure to talk
to you i
i learn a lot honestly and i'm sure if i
continue i
i do learn more
yeah so leila i just want to say thank
you so much for coming on i think the
situation that you're in
is very representative of what people
other parents in the program have
experienced which is that you're you're
a good parent
you have a good kid
video game addiction or technology use
or screen use has like really gotten out
of hand during the pandemic
and like the things that used to work
for parents just aren't enough anymore
and so
you know what we really try to do is
empower y'all to like navigate this
tricky world this digital world
with a little bit more kind of
communication support a little bit more
understanding and to really like get on
the same team with your kid
which often times is not about them
understanding it's just as often about
you understanding
so thank you so much
thank you
thank you i really appreciate your time
yeah thanks a lot take care layla
you too bye bye
all right chat what did y'all think
right
good huh so this is why we love like we
love working with parents like i love
working with parents
absolutely love it
right yeah i i wasn't expecting her to
ask all the stuff about the sales pitch
like i just you know i didn't even know
if she's gonna sign up for the pro i
as you guys could tell there was a
miscommunication about her kind of
coming on and what she was coming on for
i didn't know that she was even
interested in the program
but
i think like this it's it's a prime
example of like you know parents
want to do really well right
the the problem is that like
when they're emotionally like so scared
for their children
any time the kid gives them an inch the
parent goes all in right any it's like
it's like the kid is forming a dam and
if there's a crack in the damn like the
water's coming all the way out and so
the parents are going to use any crack
they can then why don't you do this
don't you see don't you see and i'm
really glad i hope layla doesn't feel
like you know a bad parent i think
sometimes when we point out things that
we believe are mistakes it can make
people feel kind of bad i think she's a
fantastic parent but this is the thing
that we've really discovered is that
like it's just changing your
communication
you can change it changes the
relationship entirely by understanding
like what to say and when to say it
and it's like because it sounds like
she's got a really good relationship
with her kid i don't know that he's
telling her everything by the way but
you know maybe
you know maybe that's me projecting
but you know
but i thought it was really fantastic
she was super open-minded
um really cares about her kid you know
has tried a lot of stuff we can really
hear that she kind of gets at her wits
end right and like ultimately like she
can't let her kid fail
like so she has to pull the plug and
that's not her fault
you know she's like she tries to do it
i do think there's a little bit more
about the request versus the order which
i think she's sometimes mixing up so i
think that's probably also creating
confusion with her kid because she'll
phrase things like a request but they're
actually in order and then there's like
not really transparent communication and
then that's gonna discourage the kid
from like participating because you mean
one thing and you're saying something
else
and so if that's the dynamic of your
communication your kid isn't gonna like
really
you know they're gonna say one thing and
they're gonna mean something else too
and that's just frustrating for everyone
involved because they're going to say
like yeah i'll do my chores but they
mean something else because the dynamic
of your communication is that we say one
thing we say what we're supposed to
but we really mean something else
we say what we're supposed to which is
oh please do your chores
please
but inside it's like better do your
chores
right so then your kid is going to play
the same damn game they're going to be
like oh yeah of course mom i'll do my
chores but inside i'm never going to do
my chores it's the same thing the kids
are going to learn whatever
communication style
you teach them
right
and so that's why when you start
expressing an interest in understanding
their viewpoint something magical
happens
they will start expressing an interest
in understanding yours
they take their cues from you
kids take their cues from parents that's
like
even mannerisms and stuff
like my grandmother does this thing
where she like has this really big sigh
every time she sits down she's like oh
and i even noticed like
early on my my older kid spent a lot of
time with my grandmother and she started
doing it too you'd have this like 18
month old that would be like ah
man
like what a day
right it was like an 18 month old kid
it's hilarious so they learn from you
they take their cue from you
it's great it's it's neat seeing like uh
an 18 year old with like grandmother
mannerisms
um yeah she doesn't do it anymore
unfortunately
okay
any questions from y'all
i just have a request from you it's only
undeniable yeah
okay this is great this is the maybe the
first time in in
in uh in our history that you guys don't
have questions which is fantastic
um
yeah the interview just ended medium
dawn you can catch the vod though i'm
sure
at healthy gamer gg how do i become a
parent
okay that's a whole different stream
okay so we're gonna have a talk about
the birds and the bees one day
someone posted on our subreddit they're
like
you should do a talk about sex ed i
think we may have to do that at some
point i actually like do a quick bit so
for my patients who are like teenagers
and young adults like i give them the
talk which is not like a
anyway it's like about birth control and
stuff like that and it it's pretty good
i mean sometimes people will be like wow
i'm so glad this may be like the most
useful you know hour we've ever spent
together so we we may try to put that
together for y'all
um
twitch sure
no i mean like but seriously like this
is important stuff right like so
so we'll we'll think about that we'll
see if it's it may be against tos so
maybe we can't do it i don't know
so we'll see
okay who are you rating chat
so what happens when when the kid says
no i don't like school no no so we don't
just let it be then we ask them
what don't you like about school
right help me understand like what's
and then it's like once we understand
okay like here are the problems with
school
um then
you know
that then like then you'll explore right
because that that's when you really
uncover the problems oh like the reason
i don't like school is because i'm
getting bullied and it's like then
you're like you know that's big
so you know if they say they don't like
school that's actually a really
important discovery on your part because
then like no wonder you're fighting an
uphill battle it like trying to get them
to go to school
we're gonna raid minx
yeah let's write somewhere with one
viewer who's got one viewer chat
the sushi dragon
uh what is sushi dragon doing
i can't tell music
sushi dragon
yeah what if the answer for why the kid
doesn't like school is just something
like boring that's a great so then you
can say what's boring about it what are
you interested in when did school become
boring is a really important question so
our coaches do a lot of this work with
our clients so not the parents but uh
but the y'all basically right so the 10
000 people that have come through our
coaching program because a lot of y'all
are bored by stuff my job is boring i
feel unmotivated
you know like so like then you dig into
that stuff so like help me understand
what are you excited by help me
understand when school
stop when school became boring what
happened when school became boring and
oftentimes what you'll find is like
you'll uncover other things like oh it
turns out that your kid has adhd and so
the reason that school is boring is
because they literally can't pay
attention and it gets like
they don't they're just sitting there
and everything that they're being taught
is like
you know fl flying like right through
their brain and nothing sticks and so no
wonder school would be boring
so sometimes we also devalue that which
we fear we are not good at
so i did this when i was kind of
becoming a monk or trying to become a
monk where i was like i suck at life so
let me just say that life is not worth
you know is not worth it so i'm gonna
rise above all this materialistic crap
and i'm gonna be unattached from grades
and worldly success because that's for
people who are
spiritually
you know bereft of any kind of
spirituality they're so materialistic
and the reason that i get f's is because
i am better than them right so like you
devalue things that you're afraid you
suck at
and so that's
you know so like when kids say boring
like let's try to understand what's
really underneath that
right and sometimes they'll like you
know school will be boring so we see
that too where like the kids are not
challenged at school and so my solution
there is like okay try to find your kid
like an internship somewhere like what
do what is exciting to them maybe they
want to volunteer at like an animal
shelter or maybe they want to like go to
space camp or like you know you can do
other things as a parent to support them
you can say hey i want to help you what
can we do that would be less boring and
the cool thing is it's not really about
finding out the solution it's just that
once they understand as a child that you
as a parent are genuinely trying to help
them and following their lead about what
needs to change in their life that's
when we really see a really strong
alliance built and then even as a parent
like once they know you're in their
corner you can even say like hey even
though i know it's boring for you
i still think it's really important that
you do this and then the kid is like
okay fine it's bizarre like they just
won't fight you as much
okay i don't know what this what's going
on with sushi dragon
this sounds this seems weird
so
what is this
dizzy onion
by the way anyone playing lost ark
hey are you already waiting can i just
quit yeah hey so i saw some of you guys
in chat said that like you know you wish
that your parents could experience
something similar
so if you guys um want to help us get
the word out that would be really cool
because we've got 108 spots and we're
starting november 11th
um and our coaches are really excited so
we're hoping that we can get enough
parents
in the program um so anything you all
can do to help us get the word out that
would be awesome i think the command is
in discord here
what
sorry not discard in chat
oh
yeah so you know you guys can reverse
uno your parents so what often times
happens is our p we'll get phone calls
from parents and they're like can i sign
up my kid for coaching and we say no you
can't this kid has to want to sign up
for coaching and then the parents are
like screw you and then we're like maybe
you should sign up for coaching and
they're like screw you i'm not the one
with the problem my kid is the one with
the problem we're like no actually you
should sign up so you all can reverse
uno them
right and you can be like hey hey
parents i think you should sign up for
this thing
uh yeah so if you want to reverse enter
them awesome but also like you know
getting their whatsapp groups and stuff
like that that'd be really cool they're
facebook groups etc so the the other
thing that's really neat about this
sorry can i keep going yep i'm excited
okay good okay great the other thing
that's really cool about this is our
coaches love working with parents yeah
so we were surprised like we have like
other kinds of coaching opportunities
like content creation and things like
that but the coaches themselves are
super excited
with working with parents and the
coaches are like y'all they're from like
our community right
so i was a little bit surprised by how
eager they are to like help parents like
connect with their kids so it's actually
really like fantastic
um
how old do our kids have to be to
qualify for coaching for parent
oh so so parent coaching is sort of
divided in two ways
um
i think like if your kid is younger than
a teenager maybe you may get a little
bit less out of it but basically we try
to think about two groups so this is
what we call pre-insight and
post-insight basically does your kid
know they have a problem or not
more practically it's kind of like the
two camps are like under 18 like kids
that are living at home maybe a little
bit older and then over 18 is kind of
what those are the two groups and
generally speaking
the experiences and struggles and
challenges that parents face are quite
different so if you've got a 14 year old
like that's really different from having
a 24 year old you know
but i'd say like
you know under not like 10 because a big
part of this remember is like
communication
so if your kid is not old enough to be
able to like really like answer
questions or like internalize like
understand what's going on inside them
then it may not be as effective we
actually don't have great data on like
kids under 10 for example so i don't
know if it would actually help parents
in that situation
um it's really geared towards like
because remember this is a program that
was built off of our work with y'all
right so what we did is like ask
ourselves
now that we understand what being a
gamer is like
what how can we equip parents to deal
with us with twitch chat basically
okay so there seems to be some cool
music going on from chris taylor
to layer
so check that out
i'd like to learn how to better
communicate with my autistic son yeah so
then you can definitely
i don't know how old your son is but
we do have so this was a big part that
we added in this most recent launch
we added a section on neurodiversity
where we talk a little bit about autism
unfortunately it's been my experience
that you cannot
i guess you could but
autism is such a
varied presentation
that we can't have like a communication
guide for autism right because different
people on the autism spectrum their
communication abilities are going to be
like wildly different
so that's where
you know you can absolutely learn the
principles but then you need to adapt
those principles or filter them through
whatever limitations your your child
actually has so like some kids with
autism are non-verbal completely right
so
what we teach you is gonna like not
really work very well other kids will be
like hyper logical
and may need a lot of concrete stuff so
you can't really ask them like questions
about
you know it's going to be hard for them
to answer questions about internal
feelings and motivation and stuff like
that you have to really make things like
concrete
so there are a lot of like different
adaptations but the tricky thing is that
those tend to be very individualized
yeah so it's tough um we're working on
it
um but so we do have some information
but but the real answer and i hate to
say this but as much as i want to say
that our program can fix all problems i
hate to say this but my actual
recommendation to parents in the program
is they can learn some
but then it's really to take the
principles that we teach
and filter them through your your
child's actual communication
pattern
and sometimes that involves like
collaborating with a clinician ideally
um okay
oh yeah so some people are asking and
and i think dana mentioned that so
sometimes we'll have like both parents
show up
and uh i i told this story uh recently
but sometimes it's funny because like
this is hilarious so we were doing i was
running a group session with the parents
i was giving a lecture or something
and in the background right so the
parents like i'm like there's a laptop
and then there's a couch and both of the
parents are sitting on the couch
and so i'm giving this lecture and i can
see them you know on the zoom call and
then in the background i see like like a
teenage kid like a teenage boy like walk
by and the kid like does a double take
and then he like asks his parents and
he's like is that dr k
and then the parents are like do you
know who this is
and then the kid is like do you know who
this is
and then he like got freaked out and he
left and it's like hilarious
right
um
so
we we oftentimes get both parents
and that's totally fine
yeah so that's as a tour that's one of
my favorite stories about parent
coaching
but um yeah right that's how we know
we've made it it's like when the parents
have heard of us and the kids have heard
of us but that's really like our point
right it's like be a healthy gamer we're
not we're and that's
don't worry chat we've got your back
because i don't know if you guys caught
this but nowhere did i tell layla like
yeah he's gotta stop playing video games
you know nowhere did i say that we don't
and so sometimes parents are like
you know it's really about supporting
your kid in achieving their goals
and helping them form like healthy
gaming habits